---
title: "Power: It gets dark"
layout: post
date: 2018-04-28 22:02
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- project
- hell yeah
category: blog
author: Chinmayaswami_
description: Power
---
### Power

Power comes into play under social environments which is almost everywhere in this world, friends, family, workplace. Staying away from powerplay is not possible because it is everywhere even when it as an semi-illusionary, harmful and meaningless pursuit. However one must be equipped and should be strict with its usage.

### **What is power?**

True Power is having the belief of options, that you will thrive even if anything and everything is taken away from you, that you will survive. Authoritative power is an illusion everyone believes in because it is in their nature.

Now to darker realms,
To own a person, You own what the person wants, for an addict you own the drug,  for a team the vision, for a person the path to achievements(having already reached there). With that in some cases you also gain their real respect if the person involved is honorable.

For incentivising people, you must yourself own what the other person wants. For chaitanya who wants the game, own the mobile therefore access to the game, it is important that you remain the logical best choice for them, therefore creating a monopoly of sorts.

For owning what they want, you must first know what they want and get them to share it with you. Sometimes you might have to see through them deep inside where they themselves arent able to. Every human wants

- prosperity
- reproduction
- connection(love)
- ego(respect, social status)

It might not be in their preferences to achieve a few of them, but you can be sure that they will welcome it with open arms. What else? A person will do almost anything to remain consistent and protect what he has, which means that once you get someone addicted to either of these “wants” you are getting them hooked on to a drug, sooner or later they will give in and if you control the means, you own the person.

Important things to remember here are that once a person is done with the drug, he is done with you too. Once he/she has achieved what she wants, she no longer needs you and will most definitely cut you lose from her side, after which there is only so much temporarily you can extract from the person(during the exit sequence). He/she may or maynot be grateful/respectful but you definitely dont own her anymore and you most definitely cant control her anymore.

### **Conclusion**

Recipe for owning a person:

1. Find out what persons want what drugs
2. Own a drug on a monopoly like basis
3. Get people hooked on to it

Congratulations! You have now succeded to own this person.

Issues regarding the process. FAQS

1. What if the person is now owned but still doesn't co-operate?

    Dont argue or fight, remain on good terms or else he might move on, instead keep on pushing your agenda like an idea, a bug in the brain. When the person starts misbehaving you can decide on cutting him lose or showing him how the dynamics work and then again go back on devil mode(lowkey pestering with menial talk)

**Yes, it gets this dark, welcome to my Blog**
---

How to influence/persuade people?

Align their wants and needs with you. It is very difficult to make someone want something deeply, one might invoke desire/jealousy easily but deep deep desires are there from magnitude larger impressions. People cannot be depended upon to help out of the kindness of their hearts, appeal to their interests, that can be depended on. Dont tell them your cards or what you want, The key therefore:

1. Find out what they want? Using:
    1. Throwing, Noticing cues and making estimations
    2. Asking them out
2. Figure out a way of aligning their wants with yours
3. Speak the way they will understand
4. Repeat the cycle until something sticks. Appeal to all possible wants remaining genuine.

“The only way to get what you have always wanted is by following me”

# **The laws of power (from 48, in short)**

1. **Never outshine the master**. 
Make them appear more brilliant than they are and you will attain the heights of power
2. **Never trust friends, hire former enemies instead.**

    The people serving you should be grateful and loyal. Friends could have been loyal but when you tip the scale such that you give them more than they give you, the relationship is lost. Always make them be greatful and balance the scales. Former enemies when ressurected after defeat have much to be greatful for. “Let everything have a price.”

3. **Conceal your intentions and your cards.**
    1. Be unpredictable

        Humans are creatures of habit with an insatiable need to see familiarity in other people's actions. Your predictability gives them a sense of control. Turn the tables: Be deliberately unpredictable. Behavior that seems to have no consistency or purpose will keep them off-balance, and they will wear themselves out trying to explain your moves. Taken to an extreme, this strategy can intimidate and terrorize.

    2. Use disdain

        By acknowledging a petty problem you give it existence and credibility. The more attention you pay an enemy, the stronger you make him; and a small mistake is often made worse and more visible when you try to fix it. It is sometimes best to leave things alone. If there is something you want but cannot have, show contempt for it. The less interest you reveal, the more superior you seem.

4. **Guard reputation as your life**
    1. Speak less

        When you are trying to impress people with words, the more you say, the more common you appear, and the less in control. Even if you are saying something banal, it will seem original if you make it vague, open-ended, and sphinxlike. Powerful people impress and intimidate by saying less. The more you say, the more likely you are to say something foolish.

        The problem here is fools see this as an opening. Learn how to shut them down in just a few words without agitating them even further.

    2. Use absense to increase respect and honor

        Too much circulation makes the price go down: The more you are seen and heard from, the more common you appear. If you are already established in a group, temporary withdrawal from it will make you more talked about, even more admired. You must learn when to leave. Create value through scarcity.

    3. Court attention in your presense by being more than a human, more than life has to offer

        People have an overwhelming desire to believe in something. Become the focal point of such desire by offering them a cause, a new faith to follow. Keep your words vague but full of promise; emphasize enthusiasm over rationality and clear thinking. Give your new disciples rituals to perform, ask them to make sacrifices on your behalf. In the absence of organized religion and grand causes, your new belief system will bring you untold power.

    4. Conceal your mistakes, have a scapegoat around to blame
    5. Find someone to do the dirty work for you
    6. Make your accomplishments seem effortless
    Whereas when you show weaknesses, let them be disguised in your strengths and vice versa
    7. Sell lies

        The truth is often avoided because it is ugly and unpleasant. Never appeal to truth and reality unless you are prepared for the anger that comes from disenchantment. Life is so harsh and distressing that people who can manufacture romance or conjure up fantasy are like oases in the desert: Everyone flocks to them. There is great power in tapping into the fantasies of the masses.

    8. Create spectacles

        Striking imagery and grand symbolic gestures create the aura of power everyone responds to them. Stage spectacles for those around you, then, full of arresting visuals and radiant symbols that heighten your presence. Dazzled by appearances, no one will notice what you are really doing.

    9. Preach the need for change but dont reform too much at once

        Everyone understands the need for change in the abstract, but on the day-to-day level people are creatures of habit. Too much innovation is traumatic, and will lead to revolt. If you are new to a position of power, or an outsider trying to build a power base, make a show of respecting the old way of doing things. If change is necessary, make it feel like a gentle improvement on the past.

5. **Never do yourself what others can do for you**

    Use the wisdom, knowledge, and legwork of other people to further your own cause. Not only will such assistance save you valuable time and energy, it will give you a godlike aura of efficiency and speed. In the end your helpers will be forgotten and you will be remembered

6. Let others come to you, use bait if required. In such a circumstance you are all powerful
    1. Keep people dependent on you and remain powerful
    2. Control the options, control the cards with which they game with
    3. Be a linchpin
7. Win through your actions, **never** through argument
    1. make your enemies angry while staying calm yourself you gain a decided advantage. Put your enemies off-balance: Find the chink in their vanity through which you can rattle them and you hold the strings.
8. Avoid the unhappy and unlucky
9. Use selective honesty and generosity to disarm your opponent

    One sincere and honest move will cover over dozens of dishonest ones. Open-hearted gestures of honesty and generosity bring down the guard of even the most suspicious people. Once your selective honesty opens a hole in their armor, you can deceive and manipulate them at will. A timely gifta Trojan horsewill serve the same purpose.

10. Always when asking for help, appeal to their self interest, **never** to their gratitude or mercy

    If you need to turn to an ally for help, do not bother to remind him of your past assistance and good deeds. He will find a way to ignore you. Instead, uncover something in your request, or in your alliance with him, that will benefit him, and emphasize it out of all proportion. He will respond enthusiastically when he sees something to be gained for himself

    > Keep people beneath you grateful and people superior or of the same status in their self interest

11. **Find Information**
    1. Pose as a friend, work as a spy

        Knowing about your rival and ally is critical. Use spies to gather valuable information that will keep you a step ahead. Better still: Play the spy yourself. In polite social encounters, learn to probe. Ask indirect questions to get people to reveal their weaknesses and intentions. There is no occasion that is not an opportunity for artful spying.

    2. Know who you are dealing with

        Choose your victims and opponents carefully, thennever offend or deceive the wrong person.Deceive or outmaneuver some people and they will spend the rest of their lives seeking revenge

    3. Play a sucker

        make your victims feel smarter than you are. Once convinced of this, they will never suspect that you may have ulterior motives.Share your originality only with tolerant friends and those who are sure to appreciate your uniqueness.

    4. Discover each man’s thumbscrew

        Everyone has a weakness, a gap in the castle wall. That weakness is usually an insecurity, an uncontrollable emotion or need; it can also be a small secret pleasure. Either way, once found, it is a thumbscrew you can turn to your advantage.

    5. You must seduce others into wanting to move in your direction. A person you have seduced becomes your loyal pawn. And the way to seduce others is to operate on their individual psychologies and weaknesses. Soften up the resistant by working on their emotions, playing on what they hold dear and what they fear. Ignore the hearts and minds of others and they will grow to hate you.
12. Crush your enemy totally
13. Donot build fortresses to protect yourself, isolation is dangerous

    Isolation exposes you to more dangers than it protects you fromit cuts you off from valuable information, it makes you conspicuous and an easy target. Better to circulate among people, find allies, mingle. You are shielded from your enemies by the crowd.

14. Be courted by all, never commit to anyone
15. Enter to win, and that with boldness
    1. **Mirror Effect**

        The mirror reflects reality, but it is also the perfect tool for deception: When you mirror your enemies, doing exactly as they do, they cannot figure out your strategy. The Mirror Effect mocks and humiliates them, making them overreact. By holding up a mirror to their psyches, you seduce them with the illusion that you share their values; by holding up a mirror to their actions, you teach them a lesson. Few can resist the power of the Mirror Effect.

     
16. Use surrender

    When you are weaker, never fight for honor's sake; choose surrender instead. Surrender gives you time to recover, time to torment and irritate your conqueror, time to wait for his power to wane. Do not give him the satisfaction of fighting and defeating you, surrender first. By turning the other cheek you infuriate and unsettle him. Make surrender a tool of power.

17. Master the art of timing

    Never seem to be in a hurry, hurrying betrays a lack of control over yourself, and over time. Always seem patient, as if you know that everything will come to you eventually. Become a detective of the right moment; sniff out the spirit of the times, the trends that will carry you to power. Learn to stand back when the time is not yet ripe, and to strike fiercely when it has reached fruition.

18. Be Royal
    1. Despise free lunch

        What is offered for free is dangerousit usually involves either a trick or a hidden obligation. What has worth is worth paying for. By paying your own way you stay clear of gratitude, guilt, and deceit. It is also often wise to pay the full price, there is no cutting corners with excellence. Be lavish with your money and keep it circulating, for generosity is a sign and a magnet for power.

19. Never appear too perfect, create false imperfections and use them wisely

    Appearing better than others is always dangerous, but most dangerous of all is to appear to have no faults or weaknesses. Envy creates silent enemies. It is smart to occasionally display defects, and admit to harmless vices, in order to deflect envy and appear more human and approachable. Only gods and the dead can seem perfect with impunity.

20. Know when to stop

    The moment of victory is often the moment of greatest peril. In the heat of victory, arrogance and overconfi-dence can push you past the goal you had aimed for, and by going too far, you make more enemies than you defeat. Do not allow success to go to your head. There is no substitute for strategy and careful planning. Set a goal, and when you reach it, stop.

